Q) What do you understand By Database

ans)  Data is a collection of a bunch unit of information. It can be used in a variety of forms like text, numbers, media, bytes, etc. it can be stored in pieces of paper or electronic         memory, etc.

- A database is an organized collection of data, so that it can be easily accessed and managed.


Q)  What is Normalization?

ans) Normalization is the process of organizing the data in the database.

- Normalization is used to minimize the redundancy from a relation or set of relations. It is also used to eliminate undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update, and Deletion 

Anomalies.

- Normalization divides the larger table into smaller and links them using relationships.


Q) What is difference between DBMS and RDBMS? 

ans)                    DBMS                          |                 RDBMS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      |
   1. DBMS stands for DataBase Managemen stystem.     | 1.RDBMS stands for Relational DataBase Management
                                                      |    System.
   2. In DBMS data are store as a file.               | 2. In RDBMS data are store in a tabular form.
   3. It supports single user.                        | 3. It supports multiple users.
   4. Normalization is not available in DBMS.         | 4. Normalization is available in RDBMS.
   5. It allows one user at a time.                   | 5. It allows more than one user at a time.
   6.Heirarchical arrangement of data.                | 6. Stores data in the form of rows and column.
   7.Data fetching is slower for the large amount     | 7. Data fetching is fast because of relational
           of data.                                   |      approach.
   8.It does not support ACID(Atomicity,              | 8. It support ACID property.
      Consistency, Isolation,  Durability) property.  |
   9.Data redundancy is common in this model.         | 9. Keys and indexes do not allow Data redundancy.
   10. e.g.- XML,Microsoft Access etc.                | 10 .e.g.- mysql,sql server,oracle etc.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Q) What is MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems?

 ans) The MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems states that for a system to qualify as an RDBMS, it must be able to manage database entirely through the relational capabilities.

 Q) What do you understand By Data Redundancy?
 
 ans) Data redundancy is a condition created within a database or data storage technology in which the same piece of data is held in two separate places.

 Q) What is DDL Interpreter?

 ans) DDL Interpreter is a component of the query processor that processes the data definition language (DDL) statements.

   - DDL statements are used to create, modify, or delete the structure of the database objects.
   - like CREATE,DROP,TRUNCATE,ALTER,RENAME,COMMENT

 Q) What is DML Compiler in SQL? 
 
 ans)  DML stands for Data Manipulation Language. It is a subset of SQL statements that are used to manipulate the data stored in tables.

   - DML commands include SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE

 Q) What is SQL Key Constraints writing an Example of SQL Key Constraints

 ans) SQL key constraints are rules that ensure the data in a table is consistent and valid. They are used to prevent invalid data from being entered into the database, which could cause errors or inconsistencies.

  -  There are two types of SQL key constraints: primary key and foreign key.

  -  primary key :- A primary key constraint defines a column or a set of columns that uniquely identify each row in a table. A primary key cannot have NULL values, and there can be only one primary key in a table.
   
  -ex. CREATE TABLE Customers (
  CustomerID  int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
  Name varchar(50) NOT NULL,
  Email varchar(50) NOT NULL
);

 -   foreign key :- A foreign key constraint defines a column or a set of columns that refer to a primary key in another table. A foreign key establishes a relationship between two tables, and ensures that the data in the foreign key column matches the data in the primary key column of the referenced table. A foreign key can have NULL values, and there can be multiple foreign keys in a table.

-ex. CREATE TABLE Orders (
  OrderID int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
  OrderID int NOT NULL FOREIGN KEY REFERENCES Customers(CustomerID),
);

Q)  What is save Point? How to create a save Point write a Query?

ans) The SAVEPOINT statement in MySQL is used to save a transaction temporarily.

Q)  What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL?

ans) A trigger is a special kind of stored procedure that is executed automatically when a certain event occurs on a table or view in a database. For example, you can create a trigger that inserts a record into another table when a new record is added to the original table. Triggers can be used to enforce data integrity, perform auditing, or implement business logic.

  -syntex :- CREATE TRIGGER trigger_name [ BEFORE | AFTER ] [ INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE ] ON table_name [ FOR EACH ROW | FOR EACH STATEMENT ] AS trigger_body;

 -suppose you have a table called customers that stores the information of your customers, and you want to create a trigger that inserts a record into another table called audit whenever a customer’s email is updated. You can use the following SQL statement to create such a trigger.

 -ex.CREATE TRIGGER email_audit AFTER UPDATE OF email ON customers FOR EACH ROW AS INSERT INTO audit (customer_id, old_email, new_email, update_time) VALUE